scripts/030_fastenloc/README.md, before:

# fastENLOC scripts for CRI

These scripts are intended to be run on the CRI cluster at the University of
Chicago. They should be adapted if used in another cluster.

# Compilation of fastENLOC

In CRI, it's necessary to run this command to load some necessary modules for
compilation:

```bash
$ module load gcc/6.2.0 gsl/1.16 boost/1.70.0 zlib/1.2.11 bzip2
```

# Dependencies

For miniconda installation (required), download this file:
```
https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-4.5.11-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
which is the one that works on CRI.

You also need to use [Badger](https://github.com/hakyimlab/badger) to generate and run
these jobs.

For the snp_list argument in the yaml file, use the scripts in
`../010_smultixcan/utils/ukb_gtex_variants_intersection/`

# Execution

Before running these scripts, you need to open `fastenloc.yaml` and configure the
paths to fit your environment.

To generate the job files:

```bash
$ python3 badger/src/badger.py -yaml_configuration_file fastenloc.yaml -parsimony 9
```

Commit message:

scripts/030_fastenloc: README.md updated with full_run and fast_run options.

scripts/030_fastenloc/README.md, after:

# fastENLOC scripts for CRI

These scripts are intended to be run on the CRI cluster at the University of
Chicago. They should be adapted if used in another cluster.

Please, use the `full_run` to reproduce the results in PhenomeXcan. The
`fast_run` is inteded to use when `alpha0` and `alpha1` were previously
calculated.

# Compilation of fastENLOC

In CRI, it's necessary to run this command to load some necessary modules for
compilation:

```bash
$ module load gcc/6.2.0 gsl/1.16 boost/1.70.0 zlib/1.2.11 bzip2
```

# Dependencies

For miniconda installation (required), download this file:
```
https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-4.5.11-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
which is the one that works on CRI.

You also need to use [Badger](https://github.com/hakyimlab/badger) to generate and run
these jobs.

For the snp_list argument in the yaml file, use the scripts in
`../010_smultixcan/utils/ukb_gtex_variants_intersection/`

# Execution

Before running these scripts, you need to open `fastenloc.yaml` and configure the
paths to fit your environment.

To generate the job files:

```bash
$ python3 badger/src/badger.py -yaml_configuration_file fastenloc.yaml -parsimony 9
```
